README.md, before:

# News Research Agent

A research agent that generates reports on companies based on news and web content. This tool is designed to help Cisco sellers by providing up-to-date information about customer companies, their IT priorities, and relevant discovery questions. The agent includes enhanced JSON export functionality that incorporates customer metadata from Excel files and produces professionally formatted Word documents.

## Features

- Automated research on companies using their website URLs
- Integration with Tavily for web search capabilities
- Generation of comprehensive reports in three formats:
  - Markdown: Human-readable format with structured sections
  - Word (.docx): Professionally formatted document with proper styling, tables, and clickable hyperlinks
  - JSON: Structured data format with customer metadata for programmatic processing
- Intelligent section parsing that categorizes content by type (introduction, company news, IT priorities, etc.)
- Customer metadata integration from Excel files
- Optimized JSON structure using SAVM_ID as the primary key
- Robust error handling with informative error reports
- Retry mechanism for API failures with exponential backoff
- Advanced formatting features:
  - Properly formatted tables in Word documents
  - Clickable hyperlinks for URLs in sources
  - Consistent numbered lists for discovery questions
  - Standardized source formatting

## Installation

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies using pip:

```bash
pip install -e .
```

Or install directly from the requirements.txt file:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Environment Setup

The project includes a `.env.example` file that you can use as a template. Copy this file to create your own `.env` file:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Then edit the `.env` file to add your API keys:

```
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key
TAVILY_API_KEY=your_tavily_api_key
GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=path/to/google-credentials.json  # Optional for cloud storage
```

The `.env` file is ignored by git to ensure your API keys are not committed to version control.

## Usage

### Running the Research Agent

Run the research agent to process all customers from the Excel file:

```bash
python research_agent.py
```

The script will:
1. Load customer data from the Excel file, filtering for valid websites and the Heartland-Gulf region
2. Extract customer metadata from all columns in the Excel file
3. Research each company's website with a focus on company news and IT priorities
4. Generate structured reports in Markdown, Word, and JSON formats
5. Save reports to the local `reports` directory (or Google Cloud Storage if configured)

### JSON Export Structure

The JSON export includes:
- SAVM_ID as the primary key at the top level
- Common metadata (URL, topic, company name, generation date)
- All customer metadata from the Excel file
- Structured sections with:
  - Section type identification (introduction, company_news, it_priorities, etc.)
  - Section level (h1, h2, h3)
  - Section content
  - Sources attached as metadata to their parent sections

This structure facilitates easy programmatic access and analysis of the report data.

## Word Document Formatting

The Word documents generated by the agent include:
- Properly formatted headings with consistent styling
- Tables with borders and proper cell alignment
- Numbered lists with consistent indentation
- Clickable hyperlinks for all URLs in the sources section
- Standardized source formatting to avoid duplication
- Proper handling of markdown formatting (bold, italic, etc.)

## Project Structure

- `research_agent.py`: Main script for the research agent
- `requirements.txt`: Python dependencies
- `pyproject.toml`: Project configuration
- `.gitignore`: Git ignore file for excluding unnecessary files
- `reports/`: Local directory for generated reports
- `temp/`: Temporary directory for file processing

## Key Functions

- `research_topic()`: Core function for researching a topic using LLMs
- `process_url()`: Processes a single URL to generate a research report
- `process_all_urls()`: Processes all URLs from the customer data
- `save_markdown_report()`: Saves the report in Markdown format and calls other export functions
- `save_json_report()`: Parses markdown content into structured JSON with metadata
- `markdown_to_word()`: Converts markdown to a formatted Word document with proper styling
- `standardize_sources_in_markdown()`: Ensures consistent source formatting in markdown
- `add_hyperlink()`: Adds clickable hyperlinks to Word documents
- `load_customer_data()`: Loads and filters customer data from Excel

## Dependencies

- pandas, numpy: Data processing and Excel file handling
- open-deep-research, langgraph, langchain: LLM orchestration and research capabilities
- tavily-python: Web search API integration
- python-docx, markdown, docx: Document generation and conversion
- aiohttp, asyncio: Asynchronous processing
- regex: Advanced text processing
- tqdm: Progress bars for better user experience
- google-cloud-storage: Cloud storage integration (optional)

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues:

1. Check that your API keys are correctly set in the `.env` file
2. Ensure all dependencies are installed with the correct versions
3. Check the log file (`research_agent.log`) for detailed error messages
4. For Word document formatting issues, ensure the `python-docx` and `docx` packages are properly installed

## License

Proprietary - Cisco Systems

Commit message:

docs(Updated-readme.md-on-how-to-run-app): Need to run python company_url_finder.py in command line

README.md, after:

# News Research Agent

A research agent that generates reports on companies based on news and web content. This tool is designed to help Cisco sellers by providing up-to-date information about customer companies, their IT priorities, and relevant discovery questions. The agent includes enhanced JSON export functionality that incorporates customer metadata from Excel files and produces professionally formatted Word documents.

## Features

- Automated research on companies using their website URLs
- Integration with Tavily for web search capabilities
- Generation of comprehensive reports in three formats:
  - Markdown: Human-readable format with structured sections
  - Word (.docx): Professionally formatted document with proper styling, tables, and clickable hyperlinks
  - JSON: Structured data format with customer metadata for programmatic processing
- Intelligent section parsing that categorizes content by type (introduction, company news, IT priorities, etc.)
- Customer metadata integration from Excel files
- Optimized JSON structure using SAVM_ID as the primary key
- Robust error handling with informative error reports
- Retry mechanism for API failures with exponential backoff
- Advanced formatting features:
  - Properly formatted tables in Word documents
  - Clickable hyperlinks for URLs in sources
  - Consistent numbered lists for discovery questions
  - Standardized source formatting

## Installation

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies using pip:

```bash
pip install -e .
```

Or install directly from the requirements.txt file:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Environment Setup

The project includes a `.env.example` file that you can use as a template. Copy this file to create your own `.env` file:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Then edit the `.env` file to add your API keys:

```
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key
TAVILY_API_KEY=your_tavily_api_key
GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=path/to/google-credentials.json  # Optional for cloud storage
```

The `.env` file is ignored by git to ensure your API keys are not committed to version control.

## Usage

### Company URL Finder Tool

You can use our new interactive tool to quickly search for a specific company and generate a report:

```bash
python company_url_finder.py
```

This script will:
1. Prompt you to enter a company name
2. Search for the company's official website using Tavily
3. Ask you to verify the URL (or provide the correct one)
4. Search for the URL in the database to find the matching SAVM ID
5. Check if an existing report is available (within the last 30 days)
6. Either display links to existing reports or generate a new one

This is the recommended way to research a single company quickly, as it provides:
- Interactive verification to ensure the correct URL is used
- Intelligent URL matching between search results and database entries
- Access to existing reports without unnecessary regeneration
- Direct links to all report formats (Markdown, Word, JSON)

### Running the Full Research Agent

Run the research agent to process all customers from the Excel file:

```bash
python research_agent.py
```

The script will:
1. Load customer data from the Excel file, filtering for valid websites and the Heartland-Gulf region
2. Extract customer metadata from all columns in the Excel file
3. Research each company's website with a focus on company news and IT priorities
4. Generate structured reports in Markdown, Word, and JSON formats
5. Save reports to the local `reports` directory (or Google Cloud Storage if configured)

### JSON Export Structure

The JSON export includes:
- SAVM_ID as the primary key at the top level
- Common metadata (URL, topic, company name, generation date)
- All customer metadata from the Excel file
- Structured sections with:
  - Section type identification (introduction, company_news, it_priorities, etc.)
  - Section level (h1, h2, h3)
  - Section content
  - Sources attached as metadata to their parent sections

This structure facilitates easy programmatic access and analysis of the report data.

## Word Document Formatting

The Word documents generated by the agent include:
- Properly formatted headings with consistent styling
- Tables with borders and proper cell alignment
- Numbered lists with consistent indentation
- Clickable hyperlinks for all URLs in the sources section
- Standardized source formatting to avoid duplication
- Proper handling of markdown formatting (bold, italic, etc.)

## Project Structure

- `research_agent.py`: Main script for the research agent
- `requirements.txt`: Python dependencies
- `pyproject.toml`: Project configuration
- `.gitignore`: Git ignore file for excluding unnecessary files
- `reports/`: Local directory for generated reports
- `temp/`: Temporary directory for file processing

## Key Functions

- `research_topic()`: Core function for researching a topic using LLMs
- `process_url()`: Processes a single URL to generate a research report
- `process_all_urls()`: Processes all URLs from the customer data
- `save_markdown_report()`: Saves the report in Markdown format and calls other export functions
- `save_json_report()`: Parses markdown content into structured JSON with metadata
- `markdown_to_word()`: Converts markdown to a formatted Word document with proper styling
- `standardize_sources_in_markdown()`: Ensures consistent source formatting in markdown
- `add_hyperlink()`: Adds clickable hyperlinks to Word documents
- `load_customer_data()`: Loads and filters customer data from Excel

## Dependencies

- pandas, numpy: Data processing and Excel file handling
- open-deep-research, langgraph, langchain: LLM orchestration and research capabilities
- tavily-python: Web search API integration
- python-docx, markdown, docx: Document generation and conversion
- aiohttp, asyncio: Asynchronous processing
- regex: Advanced text processing
- tqdm: Progress bars for better user experience
- google-cloud-storage: Cloud storage integration (optional)

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues:

1. Check that your API keys are correctly set in the `.env` file
2. Ensure all dependencies are installed with the correct versions
3. Check the log file (`research_agent.log`) for detailed error messages
4. For Word document formatting issues, ensure the `python-docx` and `docx` packages are properly installed

## License

Proprietary - Cisco Systems
